
Alfred Unicode
==============

Search, view and export Unicode characters/codepoints from [Alfred][alfred].

**(Screenshot goes here!)**


Usage
-----

- `unicode <query>` — Search Unicode codepoints by name (or hexadecimal codepoint).
    - `⇧` — Quick Look icon of selected codepoint.
    - `↩` or `⇥` — View selected codepoint in various formats (CSS, HTML, Python etc.)
        - `↩` or `⌘+C` — Copy selected conversion to Clipboard.
        - `⌘+↩` — Copy selected conversion to Clipboard *and* paste into frontmost app.
        - `⌘+L` — Show selected conversion in Alfred's large text view.


Formats
-------

You can copy (and paste) each codepoint in some or all of the following formats:

- As text (e.g. 💩)
- As a Unicode codepoint (e.g. `U+0001F4A9`)
- As a hexadecimal HTML entity (e.g. `&#x1F4A9;`)
- As a decimal HTML entity (e.g. `&#128169;`)
- As a CSS entity (e.g. `\0001F4A9`)
- URL-encoded (e.g. `%F0%9F%92%A9`)
- As a Python literal string (e.g. `\u0001F4A9`)


### Advanced usage & configuration ###

The icons are generated as needed (and then cached). On a reasonable system, the workflow can generate &gt; 100 icons/second, but if it's too slow for you, you can force the creation of all the icons by entering `unicode wf:genicons` in Alfred's query box or by running the `icons.py` file in the workflow's root directory (e.g. `/usr/bin/python/icons.py`.) This will take 10–20 minutes and use about 300 MB at the default resolution, but the workflow will be much more responsive afterwards.

The icons are generated by the `IconGen` utility in the workflow's root directory.


#### settings.json ####

Most of the default settings can be changed in `settings.json`. To open this file, use `unicode wf:opendata` to open the workflow's data directory in Finder, where the `settings.json` file is. The defaults are:

| Variable |       Value        |
|----------|--------------------|
| `font`   | `"ArialUnicodeMS"` |
| `size`   | `256`              |

By default, icons are created in dark grey on a white background.

If you change the font face, be sure to select one with good Unicode coverage.

The default icon size of 256 pixel is a compromise between a clear icon (for Quick Look), size and generation time. Reduce it to 128 for increased speed (and/or if you don't use Quick Look). Increase it to 512 if you really need higher-res previews.

| Resolution   | Generation speed   | Total cache size   |
| ------------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| 128 px       | ~100 icons/sec     | ~180 MB            |
| 256 px       | ~100 icons/sec     | ~330 MB            |
| 512 px       | ~50 icons/sec      | ~750 MB            |


Licensing
---------

This workflow is released under the [MIT Licence][licence].

It uses the [Alfred-Workflow library][aw], also released under the MIT Licence.


[alfred]: http://www.alfredforum.com/
[licence]: ./LICENCE.txt
[aw]: http://www.deanishe.net/alfred-workflow/
[aw-github]: https://github.com/deanishe/alfred-workflow/
